100 massa web3 page (#105)
massalabs/docs: docs/build/massa-web3/events.mdx

---
id: massa-web3-events
title: Events with Massa Web3
---

# Events

The EventPoller class provides a convenient way to poll events from the Massa network.
`EventPoller` documentation can be found [here](https://web3.docs.massa.net/classes/EventPoller.html).

Here is the list of available operations:

### Smart contract event fetching and polling

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Fetching
```

Emitted smart contract events could directly be fetched via the `getFilteredScOutputEvents` method, which takes a
[`IEventFilter`](https://web3.docs.massa.net/interfaces/IEventFilter.html) object as parameter and returns an array of
[`IEvent`](https://web3.docs.massa.net/interfaces/IEvent.html) objects containing the events that match the filter.

```typescript
const eventsFilter = {
  start: null,
  end: null,
  original_caller_address:
    "AS12rr1neHvp7uzGepfPRPguZX5JWC3EFW6H7ZQRazzNjBRMNvQB",
  original_operation_id: null,
  emitter_address: null,
} as IEventFilter;

const filteredEvents: Array<IEvent> = await web3Client
  .smartContracts()
  .getFilteredScOutputEvents(eventFilterData);
```

Defined in [src/web3/SmartContractsClient.ts:305](https://github.com/massalabs/massa-web3/blob/41f5634/src/web3/SmartContractsClient.ts#L305)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Polling
```

> Events could also be polled. The js sdk has two methods for doing this as shown below. In both, a filter, a web3 client and a poll interval which

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`massa-web3` provides two methods to poll events. Both methods require a filter, a web3 client and a poll interval.
```

> we can set in order to poll the events needs to be provided:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```typescript
const onEventData = (events: Array<IEvent>) => {
  console.log("Event Data Received:", events);
};
const onEventDataError = (error: Error) => {
  console.log("Event Data Error:", error);
};

// poll smart contract events
const eventsFilter = {
  start: null,
  end: null,
  original_caller_address:
    "AS12rr1neHvp7uzGepfPRPguZX5JWC3EFW6H7ZQRazzNjBRMNvQB",
  original_operation_id: null,
  emitter_address: null,
  is_final: true,
} as IEventFilter;

const eventPoller = EventPoller.startEventsPolling(
  eventsFilter,
  1000,
  web3Client
);
eventPoller.on(ON_MASSA_EVENT_DATA, onEventData);
eventPoller.on(ON_MASSA_EVENT_ERROR, onEventDataError);

//...do some work...

// cleanup and finish
eventPoller.stopPolling();
```

> Alternatively, one could make direct use of callback functions as function arguments which would fire on event data received or generated errors:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, one can make direct use of callback functions as function arguments to execute code in response of event data received or generated errors:
```

```typescript
const onEventData = (events: Array<IEvent>) => {
    console.log("Event Data Received:", events);
};
const onEventDataError = (error: Error) => {
    console.log("Event Data Error:", error);
};

const eventPoller: EventPoller = EventPoller.startEventsPolling(
    eventsFilter,
    1000,
    web3Client,
    onEventData,
    onEventDataError
);

//...do some work...

// cleanup and finish
eventPoller.stopPolling();
```

> The latter could easily be employed in smart contracts where we need to e.g. get the contract address. For example, this contract would emit the address at creation:

Reviewer: I don't think this belong here. At least not in this form. If you read rapidly you will probably not understand that this has no direct link to massa-web3. I suggest we make a subsection about event under the develop section.
